Here we've got a component.
And this is arguably too
simple of a component.
The fun game like, is this TypeScript or
is this JavaScript?
The answer is, yes.
But also this is a component that
could very clearly just be HTML.
But the kind of interesting part
that we kind of see here is that,
we go TypeScript,
this is a TypeScript file.
It has a TSX extension, TypeScriptX,
right, just like JSX for
our react components.
And as we hover over things,
we can see that we're getting some
autocomplete help here, right?
And so TypeScript has looked at this
component, which again, if I didn't show
you the file name or anything along those
lines, you just assumed it was JavaScript.
Go ahead and figured out, this is
a function that takes no arguments and
returns a JSX element, right?
With basically no extra ceremony that
we have to work or worry about at all.
And you can kinda see as we go through
it has figured that all out just through
static analysis.
And we have had other ways to
kind of make sure that our react
components get the properties that we
think that they should get, right?
A popular ish library has been prop types,
right?
Prop types were basically the way
in development you can define what
properties a component takes.
And in the event that you give it the
wrong one just either from a mistake or
just an error somewhere along the way.
It would give you a warning in your
console as you ran the application to see
like, hey, this was expecting an object,
you pass it a string
that's not gonna work now.
This is at runtime involved you actually
checking all that stuff in the console, so
on and so forth, right?
TypeScript and it's very,
very highest level,
seeks to give you an easier
kind of way to do.
And it's actually less writing and less
code than having to do it with the library
that used to be included in react and
then got pulled out into its own library.
So what would that look like
if we didn't have TypeScript?
We would
From prop types.
And then we might say,
let's say, hypothetically,
when I wanted to put a name
where it says name here.
That seems like a good thing to do.
We can go ahead and we would say
something along the lines of name.
And then we'll go toss it right in here.
And you can see TypeScript getting
a little angry at me right now.
We're not gonna deal with that just yet.
We're gonna read there and
we're gonna figure that out in a second.
But you prop in that name and
then we would say something along
the lines of like name tag.
Right, and this is how we might
have done it in JavaScript.
Now, let's look at what that would look
like if we factored into TypeScript using
a react component.
So you can see we got name.
Now, the interesting part is
TypeScript's yelling at us saying,
hey, this name has a type of any.
And any is TypeScript,
almost basically falling back
into what JavaScript would do.
And such as saying, like,
I don't know what this is.
So I'm basically just gonna be hands off.
It could be a number, it could be
a boolean, it could be a string.
I don't really know, I cannot help
you here in any way, shape or form.
And there's a bunch of ways to do this.
There's a setting in TypeScript
called no implicit any,
which means your code won't
compile if you do this.
Because a lot of times, if you're gonna
opt into the TypeScript lifestyle,
like roughly what you want is.
[LAUGH] You're gonna fall
back to any all the time,
you might as well just
be writing JavaScript.
So let's see what this would
look like in TypeScript instead,
we're gonna see is actually
a little bit simpler.
So, instead of having this over here,
let's actually just move it up Here and
we're gonna call it name tag props,
all right?
And that's simply going to be,
give it the type keyword.
We're gonna say the name
is a type of string.
And here we'll say this is name tag props.
Now, we have a new error down below or
red squiggly line is TypeScript
being salty with us.
And we'll need to address
that in a second.
But you can see roughly a lot
of the syntax is the same.
We have this type keyword, like I said,
if you think about like cost or lead or
something along those lines.
When this gets compiled to JavaScript
that's gonna get ripped out.
So this is not going to bloat our code or
anything along those lines.
And you can see that we've
got this name tag props.
And again, like, really,
the argument that's passed to
a react component is props.
And so we could say,
props dot name, either one,
whichever makes you happier is fine.
Now, interesting part is that,
TypeScript has found that despite
what we told it about this component,
if we hover over you can kind of see
a little bit more about it, right?
It's got these props which are named tag
props, it's gonna return a JSX element.
We hover over here,
we can say a name tag props though.
Assuming that there's one prop that has
a name, and it should be a string, neat.
Okay, what's this red squiggly
line that so upset with me?
It's saying, hey, you told me
this is supposed to have a name?
And you're using this without a name,
that's not good, right?
And to be clear, if you wanted to have
like a nickname be an optional prop,
we'll talk about that a little bit.
There's all sorts of things you can do.
But right now, you said the intention of
this code is that it gets a name, prop.
That name prop is a string,
and I wanna use it and
then you use the component without that.
So, let's go make it happy.
And now my code is happy,
everything works.
So, just quick little tasty notes here is
you could theoretically do this in line,
right?
We could say something along
the lines of Name is string and
everything works as well.
This is fine, we'll use it
occasionally during this workshop,
this course when it behooves us.
But generally speaking, you can imagine
that with one prop, that's a string,
no big deal.
All of a sudden you have one of those
more complicated components that has ten
different props doing it in line,
is going to get a little bit messy.
If you move it into a type up here as
well, you can do stuff like export, and
you can then import into other files.
So, doing it in a type declaration
makes a lot more sense.
But you don't have to,
if you don't want to.
You're the boss of your life.
And so we have this here as well,
let's switch that back just to make sense,
Name tag props,
everything compiles as it should, sweep.
We can see, I have a little component,
it renders a name tag.
We're good to go in that sense.